Hello my name is Madeleine and I am a 4th year Human Physiology major, but don’t worry I will be sticking around next year. I have been involved in YDSA for a while now. Last year I took part in the Encampment, where I helped out in the medic tent and participated in YDSA’s caucus. The day I joined YDSA I also got involved with UO student workers, and have been active ever since. It is these two experiences that I would credit with my development as an organizer, but these are not the things that radicalized me. Instead, I was raised a feminist by my mother. In high school reading feminist theory led me to Marxist theory, which, several years later, led me here. I am a dedicated socialist, but first I was a dedicated feminist. As you all know these two are tightly linked. This is why I think our socialist feminist committee can, and should be, so much more. The feminist cannon is deep and every story of revolution includes the story of the women who pushed it forward. I want to tell those stories and discuss those theories; I want to organize for the issue impacted women and other marginalized genders. Over the past two years, understandably, our focus, as a club, has not been on SFC. This has been to our detriment. Every issue is a women’s issue; so I want a proactive SFC that is able to engage with the important issues of our time. An SFC that orients toward labor, a sanctuary campus, and Palestine, as well as the problems that primarily effect us. But regardless of who is elected I will continue to push SFC to be the best it can be, however that ends up looking. thank you.